---
weight: 1
---
Now there was no more contention in all the land of Zarahemla among all the people which belonged to King Benjamin, so King Benjamin had continual peace all the remainder of his days. 

King Benjamin had three sons, and he named them Mosiah, Helorum, and Helaman. He had them taught in all the language of his ancestors, so that they could become men of understanding and know concerning the prophecies spoken by the mouths of their ancestors which were delivered to them by the hand of the Lord. He also taught them concerning the records that were engraved on the plates of brass, saying: 

> My sons, I want you to remember that if it were not for these plates that contain these records and these commandments, we would have suffered in ignorance (even at the present time), not knowing the mysteries of God. It was not possible that our father Lehi could have remembered all these things to  teach them to his children, except it were for the help of these plates. He, having been taught in the language of the Egyptians, could read these engravings and teach them to his children, so that they could teach them to their children, and so fulfilling the commandments of God, even down to the present time. I tell you, my sons, if it were not for these things (which have been kept and preserved by the hand of God so that we can read and understand of his mysteries and have his commandments always before our eyes), that even our ancestors would have dwindled in unbelief. We would have been like unto our siblings, the Lamanites, who know nothing concerning these things (or do not even believe in them when they are taught them) because of the traditions of their ancestors, which are not correct. My sons, I want you to remember that these sayings are true and that these records are true. Behold also the plates of Nephi, which contain the records and sayings of our ancestors from the time they left Jerusalem until now. They are true, and we can know of their surety because we have them before our eyes. Now, my sons, I want you to remember to search them diligently, so that you may profit from them. I want you to keep the commandments of God so that you can prosper in the land according to the promises which the Lord made unto our ancestors. 

And many more things did King Benjamin teach his sons, which are not written in this book. And after King Benjamin had finished teachings his sons, that he waxed old; and he saw that he must very soon go the way of all the earth; therefore, he though it expedient that he should confer the kingdom upon one of his sons. Therefore, he had Mosiah brought before him; and these are the words he said unto him, saying: My son, I would that you should make a proclamation throughout all this land, among all this people, or the people of Zarahemla, and the people of Mosiah, which dwell in the land, so that they may be gathered together: for the next day, I shall proclaim unto this my people, out of mine own mouth, that  you art a king, and a ruler over this people, which the Lord our God hath given us. And moreover, I shall give this people a name, so that they may be distinguised above all the people which the Lord God hath brought out of the land of Jerusalem; and this I do, because they have been a diligent people in keeping the commandments of the Lord. --

 And I give unto them a name, that never shall be blotted out, except it be through transgression. Yea, and moreover I tell you, That if this highly favored people of the Lord should fall into transgression, and become a wicked and an adulterous people, that the Lord will deliver them up, so that they become weak, like unto their siblings; and he will no more preserve them, by his matchless and marvelous power, as he hath hitherto preserved our ancestors. For I  that if he had not extended his arm in the preservation of our ancestors, they must have fallen into the hands of the Lamanites, and become victims to their hatred. And after King Benjamin had finished these sayings to his son, that he gave them charge concerning all the affairs of the kingdom. And moreover, he also gave him charge concerning the records which were engraven on the plates of brass; and also, the plates of Nephi; and also, the sword of Laban, and the ball or director, which led our ancestors through the wilderness, which was prepared by the hand of the Lord, so that they could be led, every one according to the heed and diligence which they gave unto him. Therefore, as they were unfaithful, they did not prosper nor progress in their journey, but were driven back, and incurred the displeasure of God upon them; and therefore, they were smitten with famine and sore afflictions, to stir them up in remembrance of their duty. And now Mosiah went and did as his father commanded him, and proclaimed unto all the people which were in the land of Zarahemla, so that they could gather themselves together, to go up to the temple, to hear the words which his father should speak unto them. And after Mosiah had done as his father had commanded him, and had made a proclamation throughout all the land, that the people gathered themselves together throughout all the land, that they could go up to the temple to hear the words which King Benjamin should speak unto them. And there were a great number, even so many that they did not number them; for they had multiplied exceedingly, and waxed great in the land. And they also took of the firstlings of their flocks, that they could offer sacrifice and burnt offerings, according to the law of Moses; and also, that they could give thanks to the Lord their God, who had brought them out of the Land of Jerusalem, and who had delivered them out of the hands of their enemies, and had appointed just men to be  their teachers; and also, a just man to be their king, who had established peace in the land of Zarahemla, and who had taught them to keep the commandments of God, that they could rejoice, and be filled with love towards God, and all men. And when they came up to the temple, they pitched their tents round about, every man according to his family, consisting of his wife, and his son, and his daughters, and their sons, and their daughters, from the eldest down to the youngest, every family being separate, one from another; and they pitched their tents round about the temple, every man having his tent with the door thereof towards the temple, so that they could remain in their tents, and hear the words which King Benjamin should speak unto them; for the multitude being so great, that King Benjamin could not teach them all within the walls of the temple; therefore, he had a tower erected, so that his people could hear the words which he should speak unto them. And he began to speak to his people from the tower; and they could not all hear his words, because of the greatness of the multitude; therefore, he had the words he said written and sent forth among those that were not under the sound of his voice, that they could also receive his words. And these are the words which he said and had written, saying: My siblings, all you that have assembled yourselves together, you that can hear my words which I shall tell you this day: for I have not commanded you to come up hither, to trifle with the words, which I shall speak, but that you should listen unto me, and open your ears that you may hear, and your hearts that you may understand, and your minds that the mysteries of God may be unfolded to your view. I have not commanded you to come up hither, that you should fear me, or that you should think that I, of myself, am more than a mortal man; but I am like as yourselves, subject to all kinds of infirmities in body and mind; yet, as I have been chosen by this people, and was consecrated by my father, and was suffered by the hand of the Lord that I should be a ruler, and a king over this people; and have been kept and preserved by his matchless power, to serve you with all the might, mind, and strength which the Lord hath granted unto me; I tell you, that as I have been suffered to spend my days in your service, even up to this time, and have not sought gold nor  silver, nor any kind of riches of you; neither have I suffered that you should be confined in dungeons, nor that you should make slaves one to another, or that you should murder, or plunder, or steal, or commit adultery, or even I have not suffered that you should commit any kind of wickedness, and have taught you that you should keep the commandments of the Lord, in all things which he hath commanded you; and even I, myself, have labored with mine own hands, that I could serve you, and that you should not be laden with taxes, and that there should nothing come upon you, which was grievous to be borne; and all of these things which I have spoken, you yourselves are witnesses this day. Yet, my siblings, I have not done these things that I could boast, neither do I tell these things so that I could accuse you; but I  these things, that you may know that I can answer a clear conscience before God this day. Behold, I tell you, that because I told you that I had spent my days in your service, I do not desire to boast, for I have only been in the service of God. And behold, I  these things that you may learn wisdom; that you may learn that when you are in the service of your fellow beings, you are only in the service of your God. Behold, you have called me your king; and if I, whom you call your king, do labor to serve you, then had not you ought to labor to serve one another? And behold, if I, who you call your king, who has spent his days in your service, and yet hath been in the service of God, doth merit any thanks from you, how had you ought to thank your heavenly King! I tell you, my siblings, that if you should render all the thanks and praise which your whole souls hath power to possess, to that God who hath created you, and hath kept and preserved you, and hath caused that you should rejoice, and hath granted that you should live in peace one with another; I tell you, that if you should serve him who hath created you from the beginning, and art preserving you from day to day, by lending you breath, that you may live and move, and do according to your own will, and even supporting you from one moment to another; I say, if you should serve him with all your whole soul, and yet you would be unprofitable slaves. And behold, all that he requires of you, is to keep his commandments; and he hath promised you that if you would keep his commandments, you should prosper in the land; and he never doth vary from that which he hath said; therefore, if you do keep his commandments, he doth bless you, and prosper you.

 And now in the first place, he hath created you, and granted unto you your lives, for which you are indebted unto him. And secondly: He doth require that you should do as he hath commanded you, for which if you do, he doth immediately bless you; and therefore, he hath paid you. And you are still indebted unto him; and will be, forever and ever; therefore, of what have you to boast? And now I ask, Can you say aught of yourselves? I answer Nay. you cannot say that  you art even as much as the dust of the earth; yet  you was created of the dust of the earth: but behold, it belongeth to him who created you. And I, even I, whom you call your king, am no better than you yourselves are; for I am also of the dust. And  you beholdest that I am old, and am about to yield up this mortal frame to its mother earth; therefore, as I told you that I had served you, walking with a clear conscience before God, even so I at this time have had you assemble yourselves together, that I could be found blameless, and that your blood should not come upon me, when I shall stand to be judged of God of the things whereof he hath commanded me concerning you. I tell you, that I have had you assemble yourselves together, that I could rid my garments of your blood, at this period of time when I am about to go down to my grave, that I could go down in peace, and my immortal spirit may join the choirs above in singing the praises of a just God. And moreover, I tell you, that I have had you assemble yourselves together, that I ¥ declare unto you that I can no longer be your teacher, nor your king, for even at this time, my whole frame doth tremble exceedingly, while attempting to tell you; but the Lord God doth support me, and hath suffered me that I should tell you, and hath commanded me that I should declare unto you this day, that my son Mosiah, is a king and ruler over you. And now, my siblings, I would that you should do as you hath hitherto done. As you have kept my commandments, and also the commandments of my father, and have prospered and have been kept from falling into the hands of your enemies, even so if you shall keep the commandments of my son, or the commandments of God, which shall be delivered unto you by him, you shall prosper in the land, and your enemies shall have no power over you. But my people, beware lest there shall arise contentions among you, and you list to obey the evil spirit, which was spoken of by my father Mosiah. For behold,  there is a wo pronounced upon him who listeth to obey that spirit; for if he listeth to obey him, and remaineth and dieth in his sins, the same drinketh damnation to his own soul; for he receiveth for his wages an everlasting punishment, having transgressed the law of God, contrary to his own knowledge. I tell you, that there are not one among you, except it be your little children, that have not been taught concerning these things; but what knoweth that you are eternally indebted to your Heavenly Father, to render to him all that you have, and are, and also have been taught, concerning the records which contain the prophecies which have been spoken by the Holy Prophets, even down to the time of our father Lehi left Jerusalem; and also, all that hath been spoken by our ancestors, until now. And behold, also, they said that which was commanded them of the Lord; therefore, they are just and true. And now, I tell you, my siblings, that after you have known and have been taught all these things, if you should transgress, and go contrary to that which hath been spoken, that you do withdraw yourselves from the Spirit of the Lord, that it may have no place in you to guide you in wisdom's paths, that you may be blessed, prospered, and preserved. I tell you, that the man that doeth this, the same cometh out in open rebellion against God; therefore, he listeth to obey the evil spirit, and becometh an enemy to all righteous; therefore, the Lord hath no place for him, for he dwelleth not in unholy temples. Therefore, if that man repenteth not, and remaineth and dieth an enemy to God, the demands of Divine Justice doth awaken his immortal soul to a lively sense of his own guilt, which doth cause him to shrink from the presence of the Lord, and doth fill his breast with guilt, and pain, and anguish, which is like an unquenchable fire, whose flames ascendeth up forever and ever. And now I tell you, that mercy hath no claim on that man; therefore, his final doom is to endure a never ending torment. All you old men, and also you young men, and you little children, which can understand my words,(for I have spoken plain unto you, that you can understand,) I pray that you should awake to a remembrance of the awful situation of those that have fallen into transgression; and moreover, I would desire that you should consider on the blessed and happy state of those that keep the commandments of God. For behold, they are blessed in all things, both temporal and spiritual; and if they hold out faithful to the end, they are received into Heaven,  so that they may dwell with God, in a state of never ending happiness. Remember, remember that these things are true; for the Lord God hath spoken it. And again my siblings, I would call your attention, for I have somewhat more to tell you for behold, I have things to , concerning that which is to come; and the things which I shall , are made known unto me, by an Angel from God. And he said unto me, Awake; and I awoke, and beheld, he stood before me. And he said unto me, Awake, and hear the words which I shall tell you: for behold, I am come to declare unto you the glad tidings of great joy. For the Lord hath heard the prayers, and hath judged of thy righteousness, and hath sent me to declare unto you that  you mayest rejoice; and that  you mayest declare unto thy people, that they may also be filled with joy. For behold, the time cometh, and is not far distant, that with power, the Lord omnipotent who reigneth, which was, and is from all eternity to all eternity, shall come down from Heaven, among the children of men, and shall dwell in a tabernacle of clay, and shall go forth amongst men, working mighty miracles, such as healing the sick, raising the dead, causing the lame to walk, the blind to receive their sight, and the deaf to hear, and curing all kinds of diseases; and he shall cast out Devils, or the evil spirits which dwelleth in the hearts of the children of men. And lo, he shall suffer temptations, and pain of body, hunger, thirst, and fatigue, even more than man can suffer, except it be unto death: for behold, blood cometh from every pore, so great shall be his anguish for the wickedness and the abominations of his people. And he shall be called Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Father of Heaven and Earth, the creator of all things, from the beginning; and his mother shall be called Mary. And lo, he cometh unto his own, that salvation can come unto the children of men, even through faith on his name; and even after all this, they shall consider him a man, and say that he hath a Devil , and shall scourge him, and shall crucify him. And he shall rise the third day from the dead; and behold, he standeth to judge the world. And behold, all these things are done, that a righteous judgment can come upon the children of men. For behold, and also his blood atoneth for the sins of those who have fallen by the transgression of them, or who have ignorantly sinned. But wo, we unto him who knoweth that he rebelleth against God: for salvation  cometh to none such, except it be through repentance and faith on the Lord Jesus Christ. And the Lord God hath sent his Holy Prophets among all the children of men, to declare these things to every kindred, nation, and tongue, so that whosoever should believe that Christ should come, the same can receive remission of their sins, and rejoice with exceeding great joy, even as though he had already come among them. Yet the Lord saw that his people were a stiffnecked people, and he appointed unto them a law, even the law of Moses. And many signs, and wonders, and types, and shadows shewed he unto them, concerning his coming; and also Holy Prophets said unto them concerning his coming; and yet they hardened their hearts, and understood not that the law of Moses availeth nothing, except it were through the atonement of his blood; and even if it were possible that little children could sin, they could not be saved; but I tell you, they are blessed: for behold, as in Adam, or by nature they fall, even so the blood of Christ atoneth for their sins. And moreover, I tell you, that there shall be no other names given, nor no other way nor means whereby salvation can come unto the children of men, only in and through the name of Christ, the Lord Omnipotent. For behold, he judgeth, and his judgment is just, and the infant perisheth not, that dieth in his infancy; but men drinketh damnation to their own souls, except they humble themselves, and become as little children, and believeth that salvation was, and is, and is to come, in and through the atoning blood of Christ, the Lord Omnipotent: for the natural man is an enemy of God, and has been, from the fall of Adam, and will be, forever and ever; but if he yieldeth to the enticings of the Holy Spirit, and putteth off the natural man, and becometh a saint, through the atonement of Christ, the Lord, and becometh as a child, submissive, meek, humble, patient, full of love willing to submit to all things which the Lord seeth fit to inflict upon him, even as a child doth submit to his father. And moreover, I tell you, that the time shall come, when the knowledge of a Saviour shall spread throughout every nation, kindred, tongue, and people. And behold, when that time cometh, none shall be found blameless before God, except it be little children, only through repentance and faith on the name of the Lord God Omnipotent; and even at this time, when  you shalt have taught thy people the things which the Lord thy God hath commanded you, even then are they found no more blameless in the sight of God, only according to the words which I have spoken unto you. And now, I have spoken the words which the Lord God hath commanded me. And the Lord says: They shall stand as a bright testimony against this people, at the judgment day; whereof, they shall be judged, every man, according to his works, whether they be good, or whether they be evil; and if they be evil, they are consigned to an awful view of their own guilt and abominations, which doth cause them to shrink from the presence of the Lord, into a state of misery and endless torment, from whence they can no more return; therefore, they have drunk damnation to their own souls. -- Therefore, they have drunk out of the cup of the wrath of God, which justice could no more deny unto them, than it could deny that Adam should fall, because of his partaking of the forbidden fruit; therefore, mercy could have a claim on them no more forever. And their torment is as a lake of fire and brimstone, whose flames are unquenchable, and whose smoke ascendeth up forever and ever. Thus hath the Lord commanded me. Amen.
